finally took a look at MXP, seems kind of interesting. Anyway, took me a while
to figure out how to use it in ZMUD so I thought I'd share

for ZMUD 7.21 since that's all I have -

to see what elements/entities sloth is defining you can go to VIEW ->
Preferences -> General and scroll down to the MXP section.

to access the value of an entity such as gold, or currentalign you use: 
%mud.gold or %mud.currentalign for example

to trigger off of elements such as rdesc (room description):  #mxptrig {rdesc}
{#var room_descrip %0} to set the variable room_descrip to its tagged value.

I'm assuming the mxp tags also help for more accurate config of the automapper,
which otherwise might take some tweaking to get working (although haven't tested
this)

********************************************************************************

also, thanks to the imms for putting this in. always fun to have new toys to
play with.

and speaking of the automapper, one thing i prefer is to use diagonals
directions for up and down instead of the mappers height levels - to use this
takes a little work, if anyone wants to know how to set zmud to use diagonals
for up|down let me know and i'll write it up

***********************************************************************

I'd be interested in the diagonals. That's one of the few reason I don't use the
automapper. The other one was that it often repeated rooms, but that may happen
less often now, especially with the mxp variables.

***********************************************************************

yeah, the automapper can be a little strange although mostly i've learnt to work
around or live with most of its oddness.

2 ways to do this.

1) I email a file with it already configured

2) there may be a better way, but this is what I did -

zmud stores buttons, alias, triggers in files with .mud extension.  generally
there are 3 files loaded: Zmud/default.mud, Zmud/global.mud, and then your
primary mud file, probably Zmud/SlothmudIII/SlothmudIII.mud

the default values for how directions work are stored in default.mud

you're supposed to be able to override them, but in my experience the automapper
reads both values, the overridden value and the new value and creates 2 exits
for any up or down exit

a) first, make a backup copy of default.mud (say default.bak)  b) start ZMUD.
click the new button.  c) for host type: NULL. click the save button  d) double
click on your new mud NULL button  e) it'll fail to find the host and show a
warning. click cancel so that you're at the non connected NULL window.  f) go to
EDIT, SETTINGS so it brings up the edit settings window  g) in the edit settings
window, go to view and make sure that view hidden and view inherited are turned
on  h) if you view all there should be a blue folder called system, go inside
that  i) inside that there are 2 folders of interest, directions, and directions
diag  j) go into directionsdiag. delete all the directions in there that are
black. leave the blue ones alone, they'll be overwritten soon enough.  k) go
back and into the directions folder.  click on the black 'u' entry and change
it's map property to Northwest  click on the black 'd' entry and change it's map
property to Southeast  l) err, quit zmud  m) copy zmud/null/null.mud to
zmud/default.mud

yeah, hopefully that was somewhat coherent.

***********************************************************************

left out some steps,

once you create the NULL mud and open it once (step e), quit ZMUD and copy the
default.mud over NULL.mud, then go back to step e and continue